---
author: teague
category: snapshot
date: "Jun 7, 2024 19:32 EST"
image: /media/newsletter/5-paypal-stablecoin-sanctums-tokenomics-21btc-and-keystone-in-backpack.jpg
title:
  "PayPal stablecoin, Sanctum's tokenomics, 21BTC, and Keystone in Backpack"
description:
  "Catch up on Solana: PayPal USD launch, $CLOUD tokenomics, Keystone wallet
  integrates into Backpack, and new podcast episodes."
---

Welcome back to the Solfate Snapshot, the premier destination for all the
[latest updates in the Solana ecosystem](/snapshot)! Over the past few weeks,
we’ve seen some massive announcements from TradFi on Solana, new product
launches, and much more from ecosystem teams. Let’s dive into the latest in
Solana, first with a quick update from our team at Solfate.

![PayPal stablecoin, Sanctum's tokenomics, 21BTC, and Keystone in Backpack](/public/media/newsletter/5-paypal-stablecoin-sanctums-tokenomics-21btc-and-keystone-in-backpack.jpg)

---

## Updates from Solfate

### Solfate on DRiP

We’re extremely excited to be bringing the Solfate Podcast and Snapshot to the
DRiP platform! We’ll be releasing our ecosystem content through the DRiP
starting very soon, so be sure to [subscribe early](https://drip.haus/solfate)!

### New Podcast Episodes

New episodes of the Solfate Podcast are now available! Over the past few weeks,
we had the pleasure of speaking with Lixin Liu, the CEO of Keystone Wallet, and
Vibhu Norby, the CEO of DRiP!

Be sure to check out the latest episodes as we dive into topics like hardware
wallets, security, and the creator economy:

- [Lixin Liu & Keystone Wallet](/podcast/53)
- [Vibhu Norby & DRiP](/podcast/54)

---

### PayPal Launches Native Stablecoin on Solana

PayPal has launched its stablecoin, PayPal USD (PYUSD), on the Solana
blockchain, marking a significant move in the digital payment landscape for both
TradFi and Solana!

This integration is designed to leverage Solana’s high-speed and low-cost
infrastructure, aiming to enhance transaction efficiency for users and
developers. $PYUSD, which is pegged to the US dollar, was previously available
on Ethereum, but the expansion to Solana opens up new opportunities for broader
adoption and usage in DeFi applications.

### Sanctum’s $CLOUD Tokenomics Released

Users have been waiting for the release of the Sanctum token, and we’ve recently
gotten the official announcement for the $CLOUD tokenomics!

Here is the breakdown of the upcoming CLOUD tokenomics:

**Ticker:** $CLOUD **Total supply:** 1,000,000,000 (1B) **Initial circulating
supply:** 180M (18%)

**Launch Liquidity (18%)**

- 18% of the total supply unlocked at launch
  - 10% in the initial airdrop
  - 8% to seed liquidity in the LFG launch pool. Proceeds & any unsold tokens
    will go to the Strategic Reserve

**Community Reserve (30%)**

- 30% of the total supply will be governed by the community

**Strategic Reserve (13%)**

- 13% to the Strategic Reserve
  - (Future acquihires, strategic investors, LST partners, grant recipients,
    loans to market makers, on-chain liquidity, etc.)

**JUP LFG (1%)**

- 1% will be given to Jupiter LFG.

**Team (25%)**

- 25% allocated to founders and core contributors

**Investors (13%)**

- 13% of the supply has been sold to investors

The Sanctum team plans to launch the CLOUD token soon on the LFG Launchpad, with
more details to come soon. Check out the announcement
[here](https://twitter.com/soleconomist/status/1798339985084707007)!

### Entangle Integrates with Solana

Entangle has
[integrated Solana](https://blog.entangle.fi/entangle-expands-omnichain-support-with-solana-integration/)
into its omnichain ecosystem, marking a significant milestone in blockchain
interoperability. This integration includes the launch of the NGL-Solana Bridge
and Photon Messaging, which facilitate asset and message flow across diverse
blockchain ecosystems.

Notably, it enables Solana dapps to communicate seamlessly with EVM ecosystems,
opening up possibilities for omnichain gaming, unified liquidity pools, and
cross-chain DAO voting. Entangle aims

### 21BTC Launches on Solana

21BTC has announced its launch on Solana, offering a new native Solana token
giving users access to native Bitcoin.

With this launch, the 21BTC aims to offer Solana users: • BTC that's native to
Solana • No Lock-And-Mint technology • 100% Backed by BTC

### Solana Collective Branches Out

The Solana Collective recently
[announced](https://x.com/SolanaCollectiv/status/1798384698617667723) their
branching out from the Solana Foundation, as they aim to continue to empower,
uplift, support, and amplify the voices within the Solana Content Creator
community.

The Solana Collective has supported many ecosystem members through
content-athons, commissioned work, public exposure, and many other events. Be
sure to check out the Solana Collective community on
[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/solanacollective)!

### Keystone x Backpack Wallet

The Keystone Wallet team has recently
[announced](https://x.com/KeystoneWallet/status/1798309187522609512) an upcoming
partnership with the Backpack wallet, offering new and improved experiences for
both product users.

During our recent discussion with Lixin, the CEO of Keystone, we discussed an
overview of Keystone Wallet, the design philosophy and user experience features
of Keystone, and the versions and evolution of Keystone. Be sure to check out
the [episode here](/podcast/53)!

### SphereBot Launches

The team at Sphere Labs
[introduced](https://x.com/sphere_labs/status/1795118546143633431) the latest
product in the Sphere ecosystem, called SphereBot!

SphereBot is a Telegram-based bot that allows users to on-offramp their fiat to
crypto right from Telegram, giving you easy access to payment solutions. The
initial rollout for SphereBot will be for US/European banks, with more updates
to come from the Sphere team soon.

### Solana Speedrun 3: Solana Game Jam

MagicBlock has released the details for the upcoming Solana Game Jam, Speedrun
3! Speedrun is a competition where developers will build games from scratch
based on a certain theme, utilizing the SVM.

The event is currently scheduled for June 29th - July 5th as a virtual event
with 3 IRL venues in New York City, Istanbul, and London. There is a $10k prize
for the Main Track, with multiple Special Tracks coming soon! Be sure to check
out the [official site](https://solanaspeedrun.com/) for more details on the
event.

That’s all for this edition of the Solfate Snapshot! Be sure to subscribe for
all the latest in the Solana ecosystem, keeping you up-to-date with new protocol
updates, token & product launches, fundraises, and more!
